A principle that again deters on these things. First, again, this is what we have to see which is
from source.
We think we have three things. That is like boarding the speech mind. That is what we have.
But among that, what is more important? Those are the terminology they use, demolishing the house
of the mind.
That means what? We are not going to let mind hide behind any house, house of the body, house of
the speech.
We are not going to let mind hide. We are going to see exactly what it is, what the mind is, what
the speech is, what the body is.
And who is playing roles here? What is doing? What is going on? We are looking thoroughly.
This is what is called in the Buddha's teaching, analyzing. Even our style of meditation, the Dzogc
hen style, meditation is known as a quick meditation.
Those great masters, ancient Dzogchen, called "analyzation meditation".
And then our style is like quicker, instantly to the meditation.
But even that instant to the meditation, there is some analyzation because we have to know what it
is.
As the great master has always said, "Who is the knowledge and wisdom that knowledge has to have no
doubt?"
Knowledge has to be clear, pristine, so that we don't have to be doubt and hesitant, lingering
during the meditating practices.
And we just go peacefully to the practice itself. Therefore, this short, brief analyzation is
important, and that brings us to the point.
So, therefore, then we went through three days ago, followed again the instructions of the native
masters, and added here to how to activate this, how to bring the clearly, clearly understand this.
And so, those are we did. But today, again, I go a little more, again to precisely this.
So now, we see, we heard that always, perception is mind. Perception is mind.
All the perception is mind. That's what we heard.
So now, what really that means, the perception is mind?
We're trying to close up what the perception is.
Now, we think what the perception is. Is perception the subject, or perception the object?
We're going to think. Is perception the subject, or perception the object?
Now, obviously, I think we're going to think perception is the subject.
It's the subject. So that means, and again, perception means mind.
Now, again, as I said, we close up to this. This.
What kind of perception is there?
There is, according to the Buddha's teaching, I mean, not just according to the Buddha, so precise,
so clear, accurate, go to the direct as to it is, as it is in a phenomenal world.
Ordering on an absolute level, Buddha goes, and asks precisely, and Buddha says, there is six
perceptions.
Six perceptions. There's nothing higher, and there's no lower, less. There's six perceptions.
These six perceptions are, first we go to the five. Those are five senses.
Pipe senses. The eye consciousness, if I use that terminology, or senses, either way.
The eye consciousness, air consciousness, nose consciousness, tongue consciousness, and the body
consciousness.
Those are known as pipe senses, that because they connect to the pipe organs, pipe organs, these
senses of consciousness, intelligence, are sparking toward the organs.
Eye organ, air organ, nose organ, tongue organ, body organs.
With all the organs, these senses cannot spark, cannot spark, cannot spark.
That means, if there is no eye organs, we are blind. We can see the form.
Our form has become completely counter-lost, that idea is.
We can touch, but we can not. In the same way, the ear, if there is no ear organs, the song is
again demolished, or demolished to the very small, fundamental status.
In the same way, tongue, nose, body, and everything.
Now, you think, also, of course, this time we analyze, is it true or not?
We can think those times. That's what the teaching itself, because we are trying to really bring,
that is really, perception is mine.
That's what we call it. It is this. So, think, it is mine or not.
All that is this. Now, we can see, again, trying to close up this.
Close up, close up, go to the border.
Now, when we see things by the eyes, eye perception, what kind of day, what variety of the way eye
can see.
These days, so many things, see, but if we summarize where the mental is, kind of like registering
to us, principle, highlight that.
It's good, it's bad, or it's just regal, or it is beautiful looking, or it is not good looking, or
it is just neutral, or just, okay.
These three are the principles, the perceptions of the eye.
That, again, we think now. Now, we see, when we think this is good, this is not good, this is
neutral, when you see the forms, what is that?
Is this mind, or this is object? That, that is what we have to think.
Is this mind, or this really object, or the poem is telling, I'm beautiful, or poem is telling, I'm
not so good, I'm not good, I'm neutral.
Is this, who is it, who has decided that? Who has decided that? And now, again, then, it's nothing
's mind, there is nothing else.
And similarly, to the eye, regal. Now, again, there is so many songs, so many varieties, those in
the Buddha teaching, say this song that is natural sound,
the song that is connected, the song that is connected between two of those, those in this and that
thing.
But we again summarize, again highlight that, yes, again, that three. Good, bad, and then neutral.
And the same way, again, song does not come and say, I'm good, I'm bad, I'm neutral, it's me.
I'm bad, now I'm an addict. Even that song is not good, even those forms are not good.
A mind says, yes, it's good, that doesn't match good. Even maybe the majority in proper world say,
oh, it's not good, but that individual say, it's good.
That is because the mind, but again, it's not the object where the mind is connected.
So this is again, now mind, and then go with this, go with the nose, same thing.
Delicious smell, un-delicious smell, and neutral.
And delicious taste, delicious, un-delicious, and neutral.
And soft, rough, and then neutral, filling with the body.
Every day we go one after another. Another, the object is not say, I'm good.
Form is not say, I'm this and that. Song is not say, I'm this and that.
Smell is not say, I'm this and that. And taste is not say, I'm this and that.
And touch is not say, this and that. It's our mind.
And therefore, now we see perception is mind. Now that is what is called perception is mind.
Then we go to the sixth mind. Sixth mind, sixth mind is imagination.
Imagination of, imagination that could be past memory, future plans, all present and happening
things, we analyze.
Back and forth, back and forth. That is then definitely the mind.
It's all happening in the mind, all happening in the brain.
Brain or mind, all that is happening.
And why this is so important? Yeah, the perception is so important.
Because this perception is so important.
Because every activity, the world phenomena system is operated according to the reactions of the
perceptions.
All good things, all bad things, all the violence things, un-violence things and arable, hiding,
this and that things.
All because, best on this. Really start with all this, this is so, so important, so crucial.
Because of that consequence, all happen, happen, one after another.
Everything is good, good things is positive again.
Then it's caused by the Nirvana or the enlightenment.
Everywhere it is negative and caused by the samsaras.
So basically, samsara engine or the Nirvana engine is start, this perception is the engine of this
both samsara and Nirvana.
This you think, again, everything is really right or not. True or not.